import Layout from 'layouts/default'

export default Layout

export const frontMatter = {
    title: 'Day 11: OSS Projects',
    desc: '',
    date: '2020-08-26',
    day: 11,
}

[#100DaysOfProjects](./)

Today was a productive day where I worked on a variety of projects!

All in my spare time (before and after work) of course: It can be tempting to
want to review non-work PR's on work time, but I try to be careful to only work
on OSS or side projects outside of my core work hours. (The one exception I make
is for group meetings like the website redesign meeting of course.)

## mdx-next-enhanced contribution!

My contribution to `mdx-next-enhanced` was finally accepted and merged this
morning! There was a request to rebase yesterday afternoon. I only saw it this
morning before work and spent a couple minutes to update it quickly. A
maintainer ended up implementing and merging the rebase just before me though.

Either way, we got the fix in: the module should be working with the new version
of Next.js once folks upgrade to this new major version.

## Theme alignment issues

While I was pushing out my fixes yesterday I noticed that in safari there were
some issues with the main content region alignment. I'm trying to be clever
about the vertical alignment: having things vertically aligned to about the
5/8th mark when content is less than the height of the window. Adding some
height and adjusting the flex properties makes sure things render correct in all
my target browsers.

## Theme Colors

I removed the blue/red/yellow coloring that different regions had. Also got rid
of that funky funny background. It was useful while I was troubleshooting and
tweaking layout. But otherwise it was probably all way too distracting.

I was kind of into the dark green color scheme I built back around day two or
three. I'll probably restore that (or something similar) in the next day or so.

## NodeJs.Dev

One thing I've been trying to work on more consistently is my contributions for
open source. And specifically, the nodejs project has a website redesign that is
underway. There's a bunch of front end work available, so if you wanted to
contribute I recomend checking out the repo and issues and seeing what you can
help with.

OR: join the redesign meetings? There's one tomorrow at 11am (PST) that I'll be
attending and they happen weekly. Maybe we can coordinate stuff to work on
there...

## Info Product Challenge

If there's one thing I haven't worked on enough today, it was my
#infoproductchallenge modules. I have a pretty good outline for the first couple
of modules that I would want to create. But I'm also wavering on how I want to
_execute_ everything.

Initially I figured I'd do something of a series of screen casts, but I worry
that will be too boring if I try to do it by myself. After all - videos about
how to do video conferencing are probably much more relevant if I can SHOW
actual conferencing. (Maybe I could find some folks who are interested in
playing the role of actors for a couple of my videos... Or another approach
would be to run some actual meetings and record how things are facilitated.)

The question always is what can I get done during the course of the first run of
this challenge... :sweat_smile:

## Today's Clippings üçÉ

-   Morning: quick rebase of my contrib, later merged into `mdx-next-enhanced`
-   Fixed a bug with the alignment of the content area on safari.
-   Styling adjustments to the theme: that funky background and coloring was a
    bit much.
-   Some review of issues on the nodejs.dev repo, getting ready to join the
    meeting tomorrow informed
-   Probably spending too much time on these posts day over day
