import Layout from 'layouts/default'

import Clippings from 'components/Clippings'

export default Layout

export const frontMatter = {
    title: 'Cascadia 2020 Day 01',
    desc:
        'Day one of my favourite online conference, this year in an online format for the first time',
    date: '2020-09-01',
    day: 15,
}

Today I got to spend the day at a digital conference! I actually took the day
off from work entirely so I'd have the time to participate. (I'll start with
some notes about my impressions, then post my bullet points down below.)

CascadiaFest has been going on in the Pacific Northwest since as early as 2012,
and I've been attending since the event took place at the Semiahmoo resort (near
the US/Can border not far from where I live). This is officially my fourth
Cascadia!

This event has always been special to me. What's set Cascadia apart from other
conferences is the focus on community and inclusivity. While I had gone to a
handful of other conferences before this one, Cascadia was where I first made
some real friends. Some of my longest connections in the larger js ecosystem
were formed at Cascadia. While it's sad that the event couldn't go on in person
this year, I'm extremely grateful that an online event could still go on.

And I had a lot of fun today! The event was really great. Organizers put a lot
of effort in taking the "online conference" to a level beyond just "streaming
some talks". Specific spaces were created on slack and two additional platforms
to enable folks to connect: during lunch and breaks I had multiple opportunities
to talk with other real people. I sometimes feel like I connect with people even
better during events like this because I'm already so adapted to chat/video
communications.

While the talks were going on, questions and supplementary commentary was also
being shared in real time. There was at least
[one community link resource](https://gist.github.com/JessicaG/c0beee4ac6d9e5e153ef40767dd558f8)
going around. Being at my own computer meant I took great notes, but the
community discussion meant everyone had access to some of the best of everyone's
notes.

There are definitely limitations to using a platform like this, and I certainly
would have liked to be able to see many of these faces in person. I don't think
digital events should replace all real ones entirely (especially one as magical
as Cascadia is). However, I do think these online platforms are raising the bar
for how we can engage distributed folks.

At the end of the afternoon, after the discussion and main event networking
space had closed for the afternoon, I found myself beaming for the experience.
For a short while I truly forgot some of the harsh realities, or that most folks
are still so far away.

The warmth of CascadiaFest shines through even a digital experience. I can't
wait for day two!

<Clippings>

-   Took lots of notes during the conference
-   Chatted and connected with more folks than I expected for a digital event

</Clippings>
