import Clippings from 'components/Clippings'

import OneHundredDaysBloat from 'components/OneHundredDays'

export const frontMatter = {
    title: 'Day 13: List Pages on Next.js',
    desc:
        'Today I explore listing pages by using the babel import glob module.',
    date: '2020-08-28',
    day: 13,
}

[#100DaysOfProjects](./)

Another notes catchup day: started by including the day12 notes to cover my
contributions for yesterday. I didn't post the notes at the time (though I did
at least post to twitter about what I did yesterday). Then today: I didn't post
my notes or onto twitter (though there was progress on the repo). I'm trying to
keep it casual: there's progress day over day (and I'm definitely recording it
_eventually_) so I think that's enough for now.

Wanting a little bit of a break I've decided to scope the new project for today
as small as possible. I want to look at what it takes to add directory lists or
pull in post data from more than just a single post at a time.

## Directory Listings

When you start loading files directly via the next.js pages api, it can be
tempting to think about putting all of your posts into some sort of big array
and then handle rendering markdown remotely. This is a useful approach when you
need to render mdx from potential remote sources (where enabling imports is
potentially not feasible) but for a local website or digital garden, this is
definitely overkill.

### Babel Import Glob to the rescue

As much as it might sound like reading a directory list manually is necessary,
we can actually use babel to shortcut the process and simply import a glob of
files.

## This didn't end up working great...

For various reasons, it had it's limitations. I didn't actually get as far as
importing content because I spent some time troubleshooting. My first attempt
involved trying to list the content via a component, but my babel transforms
weren't working as I expected. (this ended up being pebkac.)

I partially decided not to overwork myself and make sure I spent some time with
my partner, so I left it there... picked up again tomorrow.

<OneHundredDaysBloat />

<Clippings>

-   Filled in my notes from the day prior
-   Started to scratch away at figuring out how to load directory or list data
    from different mdx components.
-   Looking at options surrounding babel and glob imports

</Clippings>
