export const frontMatter = {
    title: 'Colophon',
    created: '20-09-07',
    desc:
        'This page is a brief summary of some of the technologies and decisions that make up this site.',
}

This page is a brief summary of some of the technologies and decisions that make
up this site.

> In publishing, a _colophon_ is a brief statement containing information about
> the publication of a book such as the place of publication, the publisher, and
> the date of publication. —from
> [Wikipedia](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colophon_(publishing)>)

> When used in reference to
> [Web sites](https://www.webopedia.com/TERM/W/web_site.html) , a /colophon/ is
> a description of the tools, systems and resources used to create the Web site
> and keep it operational. The colophon serves to acknowledge and give credit to
> all the resources that combined to produce the specific site. A site typically
> will devote a separate page to detailing its colophon. —from
> [webopedia](https://www.webopedia.com/TERM/C/colophon.html)

## Attribution

This website is owned by Jem, who also goes by Jam, or JemJam (or “Jem Bezooyen”
if you needed my full name). All the content and opinions here are my own. If
you find issue with any of the site content posted here, or problems with
functionality and/or accessibility, please reach out to me.

## Next.js

I definitely worried too much about whether I should build a static dev blog
with Next (or Gatsby, or anything framework like). There are plenty of options
to compile static content into html sites that don’t include any additional
JavaScript (such as eleventy), and for a content based websites that’s often a
better choice.

However, I also knew that as a web developer who’s been embedded on react-like
projects for years, it was only a matter of time before I’d want to start adding
either extra scripts or components into pages. (TBQH: once I was aware of what
MDX was capable of, I knew I wanted it in my content pipeline.) The challenge is
finding a performant means of bundling pages so they’re always as light as
possible, but then layering our component scripts on top to enable some cool
enhancements.

I ended up settling on building this iteration with “Next.js”, but to keep the
bundle size minimal, I’m using Preact instead of React. Next.js offers excellent
developer experience coupled with typescript support, support for api routes,
static and server side rendering, and myriad other web app enhancements.

## MDX

The pages themselves make use of MDX. This means they look like Markdown
templates, but they also have a little bit of extra (JSX). This allows me to
import individual components and make use of them within the content of the
pages.

Because I’m using these MDX documents for the pages themselves, I can also
opt-in (on a page by page basis) to additional data prefetching via the next.js
`getStaticProps`. I’m using this in certain list pages to feed in data for
rendering.

## Performance

Making web applications that are accessible and also performant is important to
me. Access to the internet varies, and I can’t expect every user to have high
speed connectivity, or to be connecting from a powerful device.

As I iterate on this project, I continually measure the web page performance. As
noted, I’ve chosen next and preact together to keep the initial bundles minimal.
When pages require additional components or data fed into them, it’s done on a
case by case basis (and all handled via javascript esm imports/exports). Pages
use javascript, but they’re also compiled to static html pages first, which
ensures that if the JS isn’t running (or fails to run) that at least the root
page renders properly. And if JS is working, we get faster page transitions and
extra functionality immediately.

## Design

I took inspiration for some of the layout components from the very cool Every
Layout project. Media queries are used sparingly, but occasionally, to try to
correct for layout issues.

### Colors

I think color theory is neat. I tried to use a (close to) monochromatic green
theme, but I like to mix up the saturation / luminosity as necessary to
accentuate different elements. Typically I keep the color theme on Coolors for
easy access.

Because of my own issues with brightness levels, I intend for the base theme to
have both dark and light modes.

## Fonts

None yet! I just set the base font to `sans-serif` cuz nearly every device
should have /something/. I’ll tune this eventually, but you can’t get faster
than “no font loading”.
