import Clippings from 'components/Clippings'

export const frontMatter = {
    title: 'Cascadia 2020 Impressions',
    desc: 'A warm community oriented conference continues in a digital format',
    date: '2020-09-01',
}

I had the pleasure of spending the last two full days in one of the most superb
online conference experiences I've experienced. Impressions below, or you can
find my notes for day [one](day1-notes) and [two](day2-notes) nearby.)

CascadiaFest has been going on in the Pacific Northwest since as early as
[2012](https://2012.cascadiajs.com/), and I've been attending since the event
took place at the Semiahmoo resort (near the US/Can border not far from where I
live). This is officially my fourth Cascadia!

This event has always been special to me. What's set Cascadia apart from other
conferences is the focus on community and inclusivity. While I had gone to a
handful of other conferences before this one, Cascadia was where I first made
some real friends. Some of my longest connections in the larger js ecosystem
were formed at Cascadia. While it's sad that the event couldn't go on in person
this year, I'm extremely grateful that an online event could still go on.

And I had a lot of fun today! The event was really great. Organizers put a lot
of effort in taking the "online conference" to a level beyond just "streaming
some talks". Specific spaces were created on slack and two additional platforms
to enable folks to connect: during lunch and breaks I had multiple opportunities
to talk with other real people. I sometimes feel like I connect with people even
better during events like this because I'm already so adapted to chat/video
communications.

While the talks were going on, questions and supplementary commentary was also
being shared in real time. There was at least
[one community link resource](https://gist.github.com/JessicaG/c0beee4ac6d9e5e153ef40767dd558f8)
going around. Being at my own computer meant I took great notes, but the
community discussion meant everyone had access to some of the best of everyone's
notes.

There are definitely limitations to using a platform like this, and I certainly
would have liked to be able to see many of these faces in person. I don't think
digital events should replace all real ones entirely (especially one as magical
as Cascadia is). However, I do think these online platforms are raising the bar
for how we can engage distributed folks.

At the end of the afternoon, after the discussion and main event networking
space had closed for the afternoon, I found myself beaming for the experience.
For a short while I truly forgot some of the harsh realities, or that most folks
are still so far away.

The warmth of CascadiaFest continues to shine through even a digital experience.
